# Pewlett_Hackard_Analysis
## Ananlysis Overview
The purpose of this analysis is to create a comprehensive report to help managers prepare for the impending "Silver Tsunami". This is achieved by building two different tables. The first table identifies the number of employees likely to retire along with their positions by using available data such as first name, last name, current title and start/end dates. The second table indicates which employees are eligible for the company mentorship program and we generated this using the same data as table one along with individual birth dates. The results of this analysis will provide Pewlett Hackard with insight into future needs within their workforce due to the upcoming retirements of current employees.

## Results
Per the tables generated by this analysis we can conclude that of the 300,024 employees currently at the company, 90,398 are most likely to retire within the coming years. From these estimates it is likely the company will need to hire a significant amount of new employees to fill the gap of the estimated 30% of the upcoming retiring employees. 
Of the 90,398 expected to retire, the largest number of impending retirees hold the title of Senior Engineer consisting of 32.54% of the employees estimated to retire, followed closely by Senior Staff employees which make up another 31.26%. The title of Manager will be the least likely to be affected as this title has the least amount of expected retirees. 
The creation of the Mentorship Eligibility table revealed a total of 1,549 employees meet the set requirements to participate in Pewlett Hackard's mentorship program. 

## Summary
* **How many roles will need to be filled as the "Silver Tsunami" begins to make an impact?

The analysis revealed an estimated 90,398 employees are expected to retire, therefore the number of roles that will need to be filled depends on the number employees who we can confirm will retire.

* **Are there enough qualified, retirement-ready employees in the departments to mentor the next generation of Pewlett Hackard employees?

While there are a number of expected retirees throughout departments with the desired knowledge and experience, the current ratio reflected in the data of one mentor to every 59 mentees is not desirable. This ratio may vary as it pertains to upcoming departmental needs and available roles.

* **Additional Queries or Tables that may provide more insight into the upcoming "Silver Tsunami":

The current retirement info can be broken down even further by an additional query generating a list of possible retirees expected to leave the company at the end of the current and/or following year.

An additional salary table can be utilized in the form of a bar chart to display the average salary for each title. 